STI Hackathon 2025: Complete
Setup Guide
Welcome to the comprehensive setup guide for STI Hackathon 2025. This stepby-step tutorial will walk you through creating your account, setting up your
virtual machine, and deploying applications using Coolify. By the end of this
guide, you'll have everything needed to build and deploy your hackathon project
successfully.

What You'll Accomplish
01

02

03

Create STI Console Account

Join Hackathon Tenant

Set Up VPN Connection

Register and verify your account on the STI

Request access and join the STI Industry

Configure WireGuard VPN for secure access

platform console

4.0+ tenant

to resources

04

05

Deploy Virtual Machine

Connect to Coolify

Create and configure your Ubuntu development environment

Set up application deployment platform for easy project hosting

Step 1: Access the STI Console
Navigate to https://console.sti.go.ug in your web browser. This is the main
portal where you'll manage your hackathon resources and virtual machines.
The STI Console provides a comprehensive dashboard for accessing cloud
resources, managing virtual machines, and connecting to various services
needed for your hackathon project development.

Step 2: Register Your Account
Registration Process
1. Click "Register Now" on the
homepage
2. Fill in your personal details
accurately
3. Read and accept the terms and
conditions
4. Click the "Register" button to
submit

Important: Use a valid email
address as you'll receive
verification codes and
important notifications
about your tenant access
throughout the hackathon.

Step 3: Email
Verification
After registering, check your email for an OTP (One-Time
Password) verification code. This security step ensures your
account is properly authenticated and prevents unauthorised
access.
Enter the OTP code when prompted to complete your
registration. Once verified, you'll be automatically redirected
to the web console dashboard where you can begin
accessing STI services.

Step 4: Request Tenant Access
Send Support Email
Email support@abq.africa to request invitation to the STI Industry 4.0+
tenant. Include your registered email address and mention you're
participating in Hackathon 2025.
The support team will process your request within 24 hours. You'll receive an
email notification once you've been successfully added to the hackathon tenant
with access to all necessary resources.

Step 5: Accept Tenant
Invitation
When you receive the tenant invitation email, click the provided link to accept
access to the STI Industry 4.0+ tenant. This grants you permission to use
hackathon resources including virtual machines and development tools.
After accepting, return to the web console and refresh the page. You should
now see the "STI Industry 4.0+" tenant available in your dashboard, indicating
successful access to hackathon resources.

Step 6: Access Your Tenant
Click on the "STI Industry 4.0+" tenant tile in your dashboard to access its
resources and features. This opens up the hackathon-specific environment
where you can create virtual machines, manage storage, and deploy
applications.
The tenant dashboard provides access to cloudspaces, networking tools, and
various services specifically configured for hackathon participants.

Step 7: Navigate to Hackathon
Cloudspace
From the tenant dashboard, navigate to Cloudspaces > hackathon 2025. This is
your dedicated workspace containing all the resources, templates, and
configurations specifically prepared for the hackathon event.
The hackathon cloudspace includes pre-configured networks, security groups,
and access to specialised services that will support your project development
throughout the event.

Step 8: Set Up WireGuard VPN
Before creating your virtual machine, you need to establish a secure VPN
connection. Navigate to WireGuard VPNs > external-mgmt to begin configuring
your VPN access.
The VPN ensures secure communication between your local machine and the
cloud resources, protecting your data and maintaining network security
throughout your development work.

Step 9: Create VPN Peer
Configuration
1

2

3

Add Peer
Click "Add Peer" and leave all default settings on the first page

Configure Public Key
Accept the automatically generated public key configuration

Set Network Options
Choose NAT option for Allowed IPs and proceed

Step 10: Complete VPN Setup
Endpoint Configuration

Peer Naming

On the "Endpoint & Keep Alive" page,

Give your peer a descriptive name

accept the default values and click

(like "yourname-hackathon") and

next. These settings ensure reliable

click "Add" to create the

VPN connectivity.

configuration.

Step 11: Download VPN
Configuration
Critical Step: Click "Download Config" to save the configuration file as
"yourname-hackathon.conf" on your computer. You'll need this file to
connect to the VPN.

Store the configuration file in a safe location as it contains your unique VPN
credentials. This file will be imported into your WireGuard client to establish the
secure connection.

Step 12: Install WireGuard Client
If you haven't already, install WireGuard on your computer from https://www.wireguard.com/install/. WireGuard is available for Windows,
macOS, Linux, and mobile platforms.
Choose the appropriate version for your operating system and follow the installation instructions. The lightweight VPN client will manage
your secure connection to the hackathon infrastructure.

Step 13: Return to Create
Virtual Machine
Navigate back to the "hackathon 2025" cloudspace. In the top menu, click
"Create VM" to begin setting up your development virtual machine.
This virtual machine will serve as your primary development environment,
providing you with a Ubuntu server where you can install tools, run applications,
and develop your hackathon project.

Step 14: Choose VM Creation
Method
On the VM creation page, select "Create from an image" and click next. This
option allows you to start with a pre-configured operating system image, saving
setup time.
Creating from an image provides a clean, standardised environment that's
optimised for development work and compatible with the hackathon
infrastructure.

Step 15: Select Operating
System
Choose "Ubuntu 24.04" from the available images and click next. Ubuntu 24.04
LTS provides a stable, well-supported Linux environment perfect for
development work.
This image comes pre-configured with essential development tools and
libraries, providing an excellent foundation for various programming languages
and frameworks commonly used in hackathons.

Step 16: Configure VM
Resources

2

2048

1000

vCPU Cores

RAM (MB)

Disk (GB)

Processing power for

Memory allocation for

Storage space for code,

compilation and

running applications and

dependencies, and

development tasks

services

project files

These resource allocations provide sufficient computing power for most
hackathon projects whilst ensuring optimal performance across the shared
infrastructure.

Step 17: Configure Storage and
Networking
Data Disk Settings

Network Configuration

Leave the data disk configuration as

You'll configure the IP address and

default and click next. The default

networking settings on the next page

settings provide adequate additional

to ensure proper connectivity within

storage for your project needs.

the hackathon environment.

Step 18: Name and IP
Configuration
VM Name

IP Address Range

Give your VM a descriptive name

Select an IP address between

like "teamname-dev-vm" for

10.100.100.50 - 10.100.100.200

easy identification

Default Settings
Leave all other settings as default
and click "Create"

Step 19: VM Creation Process
The virtual machine creation process will take several minutes to complete.
During this time, the system is provisioning your Ubuntu server, configuring
networking, and preparing the development environment.
You can monitor the progress in the console. Once the status changes to
"Running", your VM is ready for use and you can proceed to establish an SSH
connection.

Step 20: Prepare for SSH
Connection
Before connecting to your VM, you'll need to activate your WireGuard VPN using
the configuration file you downloaded earlier. Import the .conf file into your
WireGuard client and activate the connection.
The default login credentials are visible on the VM's console page: username is
user and the password is your VM's unique ID displayed on the console.

Step 21: Connect via SSH
Connect to your VM using SSH. For Linux/Mac, use the terminal; for Windows,
use PowerShell, Windows Terminal, or PuTTY.
ssh user@10.100.100.50
Replace the IP address with your VM's assigned IP. When prompted, enter the
initial password (VM ID) shown on the console page. For security, immediately
change your password using the passwd command after logging in.

Step 22: Secure Your VM
1

2

3

Change Password
Run passwd to set a strong, unique password

Gain Root Access
Use sudo -i when administrative privileges are needed

Install Software
Install development tools and libraries required for your project

Step 23: Introduction to
Coolify
Your VM will be connected to Coolify, a powerful self-hosted deployment
platform that simplifies application deployment. Coolify allows you to deploy
applications directly from Git repositories with minimal configuration.
Access Coolify at http://developer.abq.africa to streamline your application
deployment process throughout the hackathon.

Step 24: Register on Coolify
Platform
Navigate to https://developer.abq.africa and select "Register" to create your
Coolify account. Fill in your details and password, then click register.
After registration, you'll be redirected to the landing page where you can click
"Get Started" to begin configuring your deployment environment for easy
application hosting.

Step 25: Configure Coolify
Server Connection
Click "Next" under "Self-hosting with
superpowers" and select "Remote server" to

Copy the generated

add your VM to Coolify's deployment system.

public key - you'll

On the SSH Key page, select "No (create one
for me)" to generate a new SSH key pair for
secure server communication.

need to add this to
your VM's
authorised keys for
secure access.

Step 26: Configure SSH
Access
Connect to your VM via SSH and switch to root user with sudo -i. Open the
authorised keys file using:
nano /root/.ssh/authorized_keys
Paste the public key from Coolify at the end of the file and save. This enables
Coolify to securely connect to your VM for automated deployments.

Step 27: Complete Server Setup
Return to Coolify and click "Save". Name your server (like "teamname-vm"), set your
VM's IP address from the console page, and click "Continue".
On the "Validate and Configure Server" page, click "Let's do it!" The validation and
configuration process may take several minutes as Coolify installs necessary
components on your server.

You're Ready to Build!
VM Ready

VPN Connected

Your Ubuntu development

Secure WireGuard connection

environment is configured and

established for safe resource

accessible via SSH

access

Coolify Integrated
Deployment platform ready for easy application hosting and management
Your development environment is fully configured! Create a new project in
Coolify by clicking "Create new project!" then "Let's do it!" Your server will be
listed under "Servers" where you can manage deployments throughout the
hackathon. Happy coding!

